                                                                                                OOPS DOCUMENT
Q1:Explain oop's?
Ans:OOp's is a object oriented programming language in java which is used for designing a program by using class and object.
         oop's have a 4 main pillar:
a)Encapsulation: Binding the properities and behaviours of real time object into a programming structure is called as encapsulation.
b)Polymorphism:Performing single action in multiple ways is called as polymorphism. also explain method overloading and method overriding.
c)Inheritance:The process of sub class aquaring properties and behaviours of super class is called as inheritance.
d)Abstraction:It is the process of hidding implementation details of method.

Q2:Explain where did you use in your framework?
Ans:Encapsulation:pom class.
         Polymorphism:Used in method overloading and method overriding.
         Inheritance:We use Hierarchical inheritance in my framework in base class.
         Abstraction:Web driver elements,remote web driver element.

Q3:Explain encapsulation and where did you used in your framework?
Ans:Binding the properities and behaviours of real time object into a programming structure is called as encapsulation.
         In my framework we use fully encapsulated class i.e. within the class when we have a private data members,to access those 
        private method we have getter and setter method which are public.If we have a bussiness logic method within a same
       class. then it is fully encapsulated class. In my framework we use encapsulation in pom class.
Advantages:
        1:control access for web element by making it private.
        2:Maintaince and modification will be easy with respect to each web page is easy.
        3: We can achieve code optimization because everthing is stored in one place,bussiness logics in pom class.
        4:Debugging will be easy.
        5:Very easy to handle stale element exception with the help of pagefactory.initelement.  

Q4:Explain polymorphism and where did you used in your framework? 
Ans: Performing single action in multiple ways is called as polymorphism.used in web driver utility.

Q5:What is method overloading? where did you used in your framework?
Ans:Overloading:
              In same class we can develop multiple methods with same method name but different type of formal argument.
        To achive method overloading :
             1:Number of parameter should be different.
             2:Data type of argument should be different.
             3:Order of argument should be different.
   above 3 conditions if one condition is match then we say that method overloading.
Where use:
    1:If you created custom overloaded method i.e. generic utility.
     eg:handling dropdown,mouse hover,data from excel,waiting condition,synchronization,right click.
      Right click:
         public void rightclickaction(webdriver driver)
           {
                Actions act = new Actions(driver);
                act.contextclick().perform();
           }
       public void rightclickaction(webdriver driver,webelement ele)
          {
              Actions act = new Actions(driver);
              act.contextclick().perform();
         }

2:In build method.
          eg:Assert.equal(),bussiness method in pom class.
 Real time example:
      Create contact method search the contact by using name then return type is string when no is allready save.
      search the contact by using phone no and the return type is int or long 1st condition is matching that's why
       it is method overloading.

Q6:What is method overriding? where did you used in your framework?
Ans:overriding: 
    Giving the new implementation in the sub class for super class method is called as method overriding.
 To achive method overriding :
         1:Return type, method name & parameters for both super class and sub class method same.
         2:Sub class method visibility should be equal or higher then the super class method.
         3:Super class method not be final because we cannot override final method.
Used in framework:
          We use in your frame work in webdriver,remote webdriver,chromdriver,listener,retry analyzer.
              Listener:during test execution in runtime if the test scripts is failed.lister class helps us to take a screenshot and store
                               in screenshot folder.the screenshot is used for debugging actions.
             Retry analyzer:it is used to re-run the test script multiple times which were failed due to synchronization,network issues.
Real time example:
                Before 2years, if i want to pay anyone by using google pay then that phone no is stored in my phone that time number will be save first
                & then do payment after 1 year it will get update option after updating there is one more feature is present that is we can pay 
                by using phone number without saving that number to your mobile.

Q7:Difference between method overloading and method overriding?
 Ans:            Method Overloading                                                                        Method Overriding
           1:In same class we can develop multiple methods         1:Giving the new implementation in the sub class for super
               with same method name but different type of                     class method is called as method overriding.
               formal argument.
          2:Number of parameter should be different.                     2:Number of parameter should be same.
          3:Data type of argument should be different.                    3:Data type of argument should be same.
          4:Order of argument should be different.                           4:Order of argument should be same.

Q8:What is inheritance where did you use in framework?
Ans:The process of sub class aquaring properties and behaviours of super class is called as inheritance.
         In my framework we use Hierarchical inheritance in base class.we create base class in the automation framework to initialize web driver 
         interface,web driver waits,property files,excel etc.we extend the base class in other classes such as all test scripts and utility class.we use 
         for some pre & post conditions to execute whichis kept in base class.

Q9:What is abstraction where did you use in framework?
Ans: The process of hiding the implementation of internal stages is called as abstraction.
          I use in my framework in web driver which have 11 abstract method which we initialize inside the chrome driver class.ex:phone,car.

Q10:Disadvantages of abstract class?
Ans:1:We can create constructor but not able to create object of it because it is incomplete.
        2:100% abstraction is not possible but 0-100 is possible.
        3:Multiple inheritance is not valid.
        4:We can't make final and private. If we can make then we can't inheriant. 
        5:We can create concrete method. 

Q11:Difference between Abstract class and interface class?
                             Abstract Class                                                                                Interface Class
       1:We can create object.                                                                     1:We can,t create object.
       2:Abstract class can have abstract &concrete method.           2:Interface will have only abstract method.
       3:Abstract can extends.                                                                    3:Interface can be implemented.
       4:Abstract cannot final class.                                                          4:Interface can have final & static class.
       5:Abstract can not support multiple inheritance.                     5:Interface support multiple inheritance.
       6:100% abstraction is not possible.                                             6:100% abstraction is possible. 
Q12:Can we make a class as super & sub at a time?
Ans:Yes, it is possible by using multilevel inheritance.
         Eg:  class A{
                              }
                 class B extend A{
                                                 }
                Class C extend B{
                                                }
              In above example class A is parent class for class B,Class B act as sub class for class A and parent class
              for C, class C is sub class for class B,so,we can say that class B is act as sub as well as super.

Q13:Can we make a class as static?
Ans:We can not make a class as static because all the static members will load in class static area. we can
         make inner class as static but not outer class.

Q14:can we make abstract class as private or final?
Ans:  No,because method don,t have implementation and alsoinheritance is not present.

Q15:What is constructor?
Ans:It is a special non static method which is used to create a object.

Q16:Can we override the overloaded method?
Ans:Yes,we can override the overloaded method.

Q17:Can we overload static main method?
Ans:Yes,we can overload static main method.

Q18:Can we override main method?
Ans:No,because it is static in nature, in case if we do method shadoing will happen.